services/web/src/components/README.md, before:

# Web Components

Helper components designed to simplify and quickly iterate on layouts.

- [Search Provider](#search-provider)
- [Filters](#filters)
- [Layout](#layout)
- [Links](#links)

## Search Provider

Component that leverages render props to simplify loading tables or lists with pagination. Basic Usage:

```jsx

onDataNeeded = async () => {
  // Fetch data
}

<SearchProvider onDataNeeded={this.onDataNeeded}>
  {({ items }) => {
    return (
      // render table or list here.
    )
  }
</SearchProvider>
```

### Props:

- `children` A function that renders the list or table. Takes a single argument that provides the following:
  - `items` The result provided from `onDataNeeded`
  - `reload` A function that reloads the data set.
  - `setSort` Sets the currently sorted field. If already sorting on that field flips the `order` flag.
  - `getSorted` Returns either `ascending` or `descending`. For compatibility with Semantic UI.
  - `setFilters` Sets the currently sorted filters.
  - `filters` Current applied filters.
  - `loading` True when fetching data. Useful for manually handling loaders.
  - `error` An error object when an error occurs.
  - `page`: The current page. Useful when manually handling pagination.
  - `sort` The current sorting. Useful when manually handling pagination. Object composed of:
    - `field` Field to sort on.
    - `order` Order to be applied. Can be `asc` (default) or `desc`.
- `onDataNeeded` An async function that fetches data. Called on mount, on setting filters, sort, etc.
- `limit` The default search limit.
- `page` The default page.
- `sort` The default sort. An object composed of:
  - `field` Field to sort on.
  - `order` Order to be applied. Can be `asc` (default) or `desc`.
- `loader` Boolean allowing `SearchProvider` to show a loader. Default is `true`.
- `pagination`: Boolean allowing `SearchProvider` to show a pagination component. Default is `true`.

## Filters

A modal that allows filters to be used in conjunction with `SearchProvider`. Props will be passed down to Semantic UI form elements. Usage:

```jsx
<Filters onSave={setFilters} filters={filters}>
  <Filters.Text name="name" label="Name" />
  <Filters.Number name="name" label="Name" />
  <Filters.Dropdown label="Country" name="country" options={countries} search />
</Filters>
```

### Props:

- `onSave` A function called when filters are saved.
- `filters` An arbitrary object describing currently applied filters.
- `Filters.Text` Props handed off to [`Form.Input`](https://react.semantic-ui.com/collections/form/). `name` is required.
- `Filters.Number` Props handed off to [`Form.Input`](https://react.semantic-ui.com/collections/form/) with `type="number"`. `name` is required.
- `Filters.Dropdown` Props handed off to [`Form.Dropdown`](https://react.semantic-ui.com/collections/form/). `name` is required.

## Layout

A layout helper that wraps simple flexbox layouts. Component that wraps simple flexbox layouts:

- Simple horizontal layout that aligns its children vertically center:

```jsx
<Layout horizontal center>
  <el />
  <el />
</Layout>
// applies:
// display: flex;
// flex-flow: row;
// align-items: center;
```

- A horizontal spread layout that pushes children to their edges:

```jsx
<Layout horizontal center spread>
  <el />
  <el />
</Layout>
// applies:
// display: flex;
// flex-flow: row;
// align-items: center;
// justify-content: space-between;
```

- A perfectly centered layout that aligns both vertically and horizontally center:

```jsx
<Layout center>
  <el />
</Layout>
// applies:
// display: flex;
// align-items: center;
// justify-content: center;
```

- Other layout patterns can be achieved by mixing vertical and horizontal props:

```jsx
<Layout horizontal top />
<Layout horizontal center />
<Layout horizontal bottom />
<Layout vertical left />
<Layout vertical center />
<Layout vertical right />
```

- Grouping content:

```jsx
<Layout center>
  <Layout.Group>
    <el />
    <el />
  </Layout.Group>
  <Layout.Group>
    <el />
    <el />
  </Layout.Group>
</Layout>
```

- Other props:

  - `stackable` - Like semantic UI stacks on mobile.
  - `wrap` - Allows wrapping of content.
  - `stretch` - Applied align-items: stretch (children grow vertically or horizontally).
  - `padded` - Applies padding between items.
  - `extra padded` - Applies extra padding.
  - `baseline` - Applies align-items: baseline.
  - `reversed` - Layouts can be reversed.

## Links

Link helpers handle the complexities of external linking and browser discrepancies:

- `ExternalLink` - External links that open in a new tab. Takes a single `href` prop.
- `MailLink` - Links to an external email application. Takes a single `mail` prop.
- `TelLink` - Links to an external phone application. Takes a single `tel` prop.
- `ContentLink` - Catch-all helper when link type is unknown. Takes a single `href` prop. Falls back to `react-router-dom` when link is relative.

Commit message:

added readme for looking up icons

services/web/src/components/README.md, after:

# Web Components

Helper components designed to simplify and quickly iterate on layouts.

- [Search Provider](#search-provider)
- [Filters](#filters)
- [Layout](#layout)
- [Links](#links)
- [Icons](#icons)

## Search Provider

Component that leverages render props to simplify loading tables or lists with pagination. Basic Usage:

```jsx

onDataNeeded = async () => {
  // Fetch data
}

<SearchProvider onDataNeeded={this.onDataNeeded}>
  {({ items }) => {
    return (
      // render table or list here.
    )
  }
</SearchProvider>
```

### Props

- `children` A function that renders the list or table. Takes a single argument that provides the following:
  - `items` The result provided from `onDataNeeded`
  - `reload` A function that reloads the data set.
  - `setSort` Sets the currently sorted field. If already sorting on that field flips the `order` flag.
  - `getSorted` Returns either `ascending` or `descending`. For compatibility with Semantic UI.
  - `setFilters` Sets the currently sorted filters.
  - `filters` Current applied filters.
  - `loading` True when fetching data. Useful for manually handling loaders.
  - `error` An error object when an error occurs.
  - `page`: The current page. Useful when manually handling pagination.
  - `sort` The current sorting. Useful when manually handling pagination. Object composed of:
    - `field` Field to sort on.
    - `order` Order to be applied. Can be `asc` (default) or `desc`.
- `onDataNeeded` An async function that fetches data. Called on mount, on setting filters, sort, etc.
- `limit` The default search limit.
- `page` The default page.
- `sort` The default sort. An object composed of:
  - `field` Field to sort on.
  - `order` Order to be applied. Can be `asc` (default) or `desc`.
- `loader` Boolean allowing `SearchProvider` to show a loader. Default is `true`.
- `pagination`: Boolean allowing `SearchProvider` to show a pagination component. Default is `true`.

## Filters

A modal that allows filters to be used in conjunction with `SearchProvider`. Props will be passed down to Semantic UI form elements. Usage:

```jsx
<Filters onSave={setFilters} filters={filters}>
  <Filters.Text name="name" label="Name" />
  <Filters.Number name="name" label="Name" />
  <Filters.Dropdown label="Country" name="country" options={countries} search />
</Filters>
```

### Props:

- `onSave` A function called when filters are saved.
- `filters` An arbitrary object describing currently applied filters.
- `Filters.Text` Props handed off to [`Form.Input`](https://react.semantic-ui.com/collections/form/). `name` is required.
- `Filters.Number` Props handed off to [`Form.Input`](https://react.semantic-ui.com/collections/form/) with `type="number"`. `name` is required.
- `Filters.Dropdown` Props handed off to [`Form.Dropdown`](https://react.semantic-ui.com/collections/form/). `name` is required.

## Layout

A layout helper that wraps simple flexbox layouts. Component that wraps simple flexbox layouts:

- Simple horizontal layout that aligns its children vertically center:

```jsx
<Layout horizontal center>
  <el />
  <el />
</Layout>
// applies:
// display: flex;
// flex-flow: row;
// align-items: center;
```

- A horizontal spread layout that pushes children to their edges:

```jsx
<Layout horizontal center spread>
  <el />
  <el />
</Layout>
// applies:
// display: flex;
// flex-flow: row;
// align-items: center;
// justify-content: space-between;
```

- A perfectly centered layout that aligns both vertically and horizontally center:

```jsx
<Layout center>
  <el />
</Layout>
// applies:
// display: flex;
// align-items: center;
// justify-content: center;
```

- Other layout patterns can be achieved by mixing vertical and horizontal props:

```jsx
<Layout horizontal top />
<Layout horizontal center />
<Layout horizontal bottom />
<Layout vertical left />
<Layout vertical center />
<Layout vertical right />
```

- Grouping content:

```jsx
<Layout center>
  <Layout.Group>
    <el />
    <el />
  </Layout.Group>
  <Layout.Group>
    <el />
    <el />
  </Layout.Group>
</Layout>
```

- Other props:

  - `stackable` - Like semantic UI stacks on mobile.
  - `wrap` - Allows wrapping of content.
  - `stretch` - Applied align-items: stretch (children grow vertically or horizontally).
  - `padded` - Applies padding between items.
  - `extra padded` - Applies extra padding.
  - `baseline` - Applies align-items: baseline.
  - `reversed` - Layouts can be reversed.

## Links

Link helpers handle the complexities of external linking and browser discrepancies:

- `ExternalLink` - External links that open in a new tab. Takes a single `href` prop.
- `MailLink` - Links to an external email application. Takes a single `mail` prop.
- `TelLink` - Links to an external phone application. Takes a single `tel` prop.
- `ContentLink` - Catch-all helper when link type is unknown. Takes a single `href` prop. Falls back to `react-router-dom` when link is relative.

### Icons

We use a custom SVG-based icon component that follows [Semantic UI props](https://react.semantic-ui.com/elements/icon/), however the icon set itself is the latest Font Awesome icons which means the `name` prop differs. To find a specific icon, use the [main icon search](https://fontawesome.com/icons) on the Font Awesome site.
