services/api/README.md, before:

# Bedrock API

![Run Tests](https://github.com/bedrockio/bedrock-core/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)

## API Documentation

See http://localhost:2200/docs for full documentation on this API (requires running the web interface).

---

- [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Running in Development](#running-in-development)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Secrets](#secrets)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Background Jobs](#background-jobs)
- [Fixtures](#fixtures)
- [Multi Tenancy](#multi-tenancy)
- [Email Templates](#email-templates)
- [Logging](#logging)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

---

## Directory Structure

- `.env` - Default configuration values (override via environment)
- `package.json` - Configure dependencies
- `src/**/__tests__` - Unit tests
- `src/utils` - Various utilities, helpers and middleware extensions
- `src/routes` - API Routes
- `src/routes/__openapi__` - OpenAPI descriptions for use in documentation portal
- `src/models` - [Mongoose ORM models](src/models/README.md) (code and JSON) based on
  [@bedrockio/model](https://github.com/bedrockio/model).
- `src/app.js` - Entrypoint into API (does not bind, so can be used in unit tests)
- `src/index.js` - Launch script for the API
- `emails` - Email templates
- `scripts` - Scripts and jobs
- `fixtures` - Database [fixtures](#fixtures).

## Dependencies

Ensure Node.js version uniformity using Volta:

```
curl -sSLf https://get.volta.sh | bash
```

Install dependencies: (will install correct Node.js version)

```
yarn install
```

## Testing

Tests are written using Jest. Tests MUST follow these guidelines:

- Tests SHOULD focus on critical flows and complex logic. Edge cases should be covered reasonably, but avoid unnecessary
  detail or trivial cases.
- Tests MUST validate observable behavior rather than implementation details.
- Tests MUST be colocated with the source file and use a .test.js suffix.

Run tests with:

```
yarn test
```

## Running in Development

Code reload using nodemon:

```
yarn start
```

This command will automatically populate MongoDB fixtures when and empty DB is found.

## Configuration

All configuration is done using environment variables. The default values in `.env` can be overwritten using environment
variables.

- `SERVER_HOST` - Host to bind to, defaults to `"0.0.0.0"`
- `SERVER_PORT` - Port to bind to, defaults to `2300`
- `MONGO_URI` - MongoDB URI to connect to, defaults to `mongodb://localhost/bedrock_dev`
- `JWT_SECRET` - JWT secret used for token signing and encryption
- `ADMIN_NAME` - Default dashboard admin user name `admin`
- `ADMIN_EMAIL` - Default dashboard admin user `admin@bedrock.foundation`
- `ADMIN_PASSWORD` - Default dashboard admin password
- `APP_NAME` - Default product name to be used in emails `Bedrock`
- `APP_URL` - URL for app defaults to `http://localhost:2200`
- `POSTMARK_FROM` - Reply email address `no-reply@bedrock.foundation`
- `POSTMARK_API_KEY` - APIKey for Postmark
- `POSTMARK_DEV_TO` - Email recipient to send development mails for debugging.
- `UPLOADS_STORE` - Method for uploads. `local` or `gcs` (Google Cloud Storage)
- `UPLOADS_GCS_BUCKET` - GCS bucket for uploads
- `SENTRY_DSN` - Sentry error monitoring credentials
- `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID` - Twilio Account SID (required for MFA SMS)
- `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN` - Twillio Auth token (required for MFA SMS)
- `TWILIO_MESSAGING_SERVICE_SID` - Twillio Messaging Service SID (required for MFA SMS)

## Secrets

No production secrets should ever be checked into your repository. Instead, use the deployment
[secrets](../../deployment#secrets) facility to store secrets remotely.

## Deployment

See [../../deployment](../../deployment/).

## Background Jobs

The API provides a simple Docker container for running Cronjobs. The container uses
[Yacron](https://github.com/gjcarneiro/yacron) to provide a reliable cron job system with added features such as
timezones, concurrency policies, retry policies and Sentry error monitoring.

Example configuration of a 10 minute job `jobs/default.yml`:

```yaml
defaults:
  timezone: America/New_York
jobs:
  - name: example
    command: node scripts/jobs/example.js
    schedule: '*/10 * * * *' # Human readable: https://crontab.guru/
    concurrencyPolicy: Forbid
```

To build the container:

```
docker build -t bedrock-api-jobs -f Dockerfile.jobs .
```

Different job configurations can be specified by changing the entry point when running the container. E.g in Kubernetes:

```yaml
command:
  - './scripts/entrypoints/jobs.sh jobs/default.yml'
```

To list all scheduled jobs on a running container:

```bash
curl -s -H "Accept: application/json" localhost:2600/status | jq
```

To force run a scheduled job:

```bash
curl -s -XPOST localhost:2600/jobs/example/start
```

## Fixtures

Fixtures are provided with the [@bedrockio/fixtures](https://github.com/bedrockio/fixtures) package.

Package scripts are the main way of interacting with fixtures:

- `yarn start` - When the development server starts, fixtures will be loaded if the database is empty.
- `yarn fixtures:reload` - Drops the database and reloads all fixtures.
- `yarn fixtures:load` - Loads fixtures if the database is empty. Fixtures are not auto-loaded in non-development
  environments as multiple pods starting up at the same time can cause data duplication, so instead this script is used
  to provision the data once through the CLI pod.
- `yarn fixtures:export` - Exports documents as a zip file in a format compatible with the `fixtures` directory.

Additionally, a function `importFixtures` manually imports fixtures for use with testing.

You can force reload fixtures with the command:

```
yarn fixtures:reload
```

_Note: In the staging environment this script can be run by obtaining a shell into the API CLI pod (see
[../../deployment](../../deployment/README.md))_

The `yarn fixtures:export` script exports documents as a zip file in a format compatible with the `fixtures` directory.
This allows database changes to be "baked" in as fixtures. The following options are accepted:

- `--model(s)`: Comma separated list of model names to export (required).
- `--id(s)`: Comma separated list of ObjectIds to export.
- `--stdout`: Write zip binary to stdout.

In addition to baking local changes, an accompanying CLI command `bedrock cloud export` allows fixtures to be exported
from a remote cloud environment:

`bedrock cloud export [environment]`

Run `bedrock cloud export --help` for usage.

## Multi Tenancy

The API is "multi tenant ready" and can be modified to accommodate specific tenancy patterns:

- Single Tenant per platform deployment: Organization model could be removed.
- Basic Multi Tenancy: Each request will result in a "Default" organization to be set. This can be overriden using the
  "Organization" header.
- Managed Multi Tenancy: Manually add new organizations in the "Organizations" CRUD UI in the dashboard. Suitable for
  smaller enterprise use cases.
- Self Serve Multi Tenancy; Requires changes to the register mechanism to create a new Organization for each signup.
  Suitable for broad SaaS.
- Advanced Multi Tenancy; Allow users to self signup and also be invited into multiple organizations. Requires expaning
  the user model and invite mechanism to allow for multiple organizations.

Example Create API call with multi tenancy enabled:

```js
const { authenticate } = require('../utils/middleware/authenticate');
const { requirePermissions } = require('../utils/middleware/permissions');

router
  .use(authenticate())
  // Only allow access to users that have write permissions for this organization
  .use(requirePermissions('shops.write', 'organization'))
  .post(
    '/',
    validate({
      body: schema,
    }),
    async (ctx) => {
      const shop = await Shop.create({
        // Set the organization for each object created
        organization: ctx.state.organization,
        ...ctx.request.body,
      });
      ctx.body = {
        data: shop,
      };
    },
  );
```

## E-Mail Templates

E-mail templates can be found in `emails`. There is a layout.html that contains the styling and default layout, and a
template for each email, that gets injected into the layout. Multiple layouts are supported, just make sure you specify
what layout to use when calling `template({ layout: "other-layout.html", template: "..." })`

You can either use markdown or full html templates. Both are run though https://mustache.github.io/ for templating

### To create a button in markdown

```
**[Reset Password]({{{APP_URL}}}/reset-password?token={{token}})**
```

This translates to

```
<p><a class="button" href="{{{APP_URL}}}/reset-password?token={{token}}">Reset Pasword</a/</p>
```

(note this only works if the `strong` link is the only element inside the paragraph)

### Recall to unescape `APP_URL`

We are using mustache for templating, it will attempt to escape the http:`//` which causes issues. So when using the the
`APP_URL` write `{{&APP_URL}}`

## Logging

`@bedrockio/logger` provides structured logging in the console and both [logging](https://cloud.google.com/logging/) and
[tracing](https://cloud.google.com/trace) in Google Cloud environments. Importing it will by default enable tracing in a
GCP environment.

In Google Cloud environments generally the server and jobs (`jobs/`) should use the above initialization to allow
structured error reporting in the cloud console. Development environments and scripts (`scripts/`) meant to be run in a
terminal do not require this setup step.

The logger allows multiple log levels:

```js
logger.trace('Very verbose message.');
logger.debug('Less verbose message.');
logger.info('Normal message.');
logger.warning('Warning message.');
logger.error('Error message.');
```

In development environments the default level is `info`, hiding `trace` and `debug` messages. This can be overridden
with `LOG_LEVEL`. In Google Cloud environments all levels are output.

## Documentation

Good API documentation needs love, so make sure to take the time to describe parameters, create examples, etc. The
[Bedrock CLI](https://github.com/bedrockio/bedrock-cli) can generate documentation using the command:

```
bedrock generate docs
```

After generation, documentation can be found and augmented in the files:

```
services/api/src/routes/__openapi__/resource.json
services/web/src/docs/RESOURCE.md
```

The format in `src/routes/__openapi__` is using a slimmed down version of the OpenAPI spec to make editing easier. API
calls can be defined in the `paths` array and Object definitions can be defined in the `objects` array.

Here's an example of an API call definition:

```json
{
  "method": "POST",
  "path": "/login",
  "requestBody": [
    {
      "name": "email",
      "description": "E-mail address of the user trying to log in",
      "required": true,
      "schema": {
        "type": "string",
        "format": "email"
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "password",
      "description": "Password associated with the e-mail address",
      "required": true,
      "schema": {
        "type": "string"
      }
    }
  ],
  "responseBody": [
    {
      "name": "data.token",
      "description": "JWT token that can be used to authenticate user",
      "schema": {
        "type": "string"
      }
    }
  ],
  "examples": [
    {
      "name": "A new login from John Doe",
      "requestBody": {
        "email": "john.doe@gmail.com",
        "password": "AN$.37127"
      },
      "responseBody": {
        "data": {
          "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VySWQiOiI1ZTZhOWMwMDBmYzY3NjQ0N2RjOTkzNmEiLCJ0eXBlIjoidXNlciIsImtpZCI6InVzZXIiLCJpYXQiOjE1ODk1NjgyODQsImV4cCI6MTU5MjE2MDI4NH0.I0DhLK9mBHCy8sJglzyLHYQHFfr34UYyCFyTaEgFFG"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

All information in `src/routes/__openapi__` is exposed through the API and used by the Markdown-powered documentation
portal in `/services/web/src/docs`.

See [../../services/web](../../services/web) for more info on customizing documentation.

## Authentication

Bedrock provides a variety of authentication methods out of the box. These can be used together, customized to suit your
needs, and removed if not needed:

- [Password](#password)
- [OTP](#otp)
- [Passkey](#passkey)
- [Federated](#federated)

### Password

Password is the default authentication method. It can be used alone or in conjunction with the MFA methods:

- OTP by SMS
- OTP by Email
- Authenticator App

By default MFA is not required and established per-user in the settings "Sign In" page.

To make MFA required for all users, change the `mfaMethod` default in the `user.json` model definition, and remove the
settings dropdown that allows users to change it.

If password authentication is not desired at all, remove it from `api/src/routes/auth/index.js` and change login
entrypoint in `web/src/App.js`.

### OTP

To enable OTP only login, change the login entrypoint in `web/src/App.js` to either `PhoneOtp` or `EmailOtp`. Note that
OTP only authentication is inherently weaker than other methods, and is more suitable for less secure applications.

To remove OTP support, remove the routes from `api/src/routes/auth/index.js`. The OTP related utils should be left to
support OTP as a secondary MFA method.

Note that OTP by SMS requires a Twilio account and OTP by Email requires a Postmark account.

Note also that users flagged as `isTester` will always receive an OTP of `111111`.

### Passkey

Passkey authentication is enabled by changing the login entrypoint in `web/src/App.js` to `Passkey`. Note that passkeys
are secure and do not require MFA, so with a passkey only setup the settings and fields that control `mfaMethod` can be
removed.

To remove passkey support, remove the routes from `api/src/routes/auth/index.js`. The web login and settings section can
also be removed as well as `@simplewebauthn` packages.

> [!WARNING] Note that passkeys require a secure connection. The simplest way to test locally is to set up a
> [Cloudflare Tunnel](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/).

### Federated

Bedrock provides federated login for both Google and Apple out of the box. By default federated logins do not have
entrypoints. Instead they are provided as a secondary login method.

To remove federated login, remove the appropriate routes from `api/src/auth/index.js` as well as the appropriate
settings in the `settings/sign-in` screen. The appropriate packages `google-auth-library` and `verify-apple-id-token`
may also be removed.

#### Google

To set up Sign-in with Google, in your [project console](https://console.cloud.google.com):

- Go to "APIs & Services" > "Credentials".
- Create a new "OAuth client ID".
- "Authorized Javascript origins"
  - Add your domain
  - Add `http://localhost`.
  - Add `http://localhost:2200`.
- "Authorized redirect URIs" - Not needed.
- Copy the "Client ID" to the `.env` files of both `web` and `api`.

#### Apple

To set up Sign-in with Apple, in the [developer console](https://developer.apple.com/account):

- Go to "Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles" > "Identifiers".
- Create a new "App ID":
  - Enter the description.
  - Enter a unique bundle ID.
  - Enable "Sign in with Apple".
  - Continue and Register.
- Create a new "Services ID":

  - Enter the description.
  - Enter a unique Identifier (must be different from the App bundle ID).
  - Continue and Register
  - Select the service.
  - Enable "Sign In with Apple" and configure.
  - Set the "Primary App ID" to your App ID
  - Enter your base domain (ie. `example.com`).
  - Enter your base url as the "Return URL" (ie. `https://example.com`).
  - For local testing, `localhost` is not allowed here, so it is recommended to set up a local tunnel and add that to
    the return URLs (eg. `https://local.example.com`).
  - Note that the "Return URL" must be **exact** including the trailing slash.

- Copy the "Service ID" to the `.env` files of both `web` and `api`.
- Add `APPLE_RETURN_URL` to the `.env` file in `web` (ensure that the URL is exact).

### Custom

Login entrypoints may be replaced or customized as needed, for example a dropdown allowing multiple login methods to be
chosen from in the same screen, however it is recommended to leave the rest of the flows intact as they have been
optimized for each method.

## Troubleshooting

##### I get warnings like `The punycode module is deprecated`. What is this?

This warning comes from later node versions and is usually deep in the dependency chain. Add this to your `package.json`
and re-run `yarn install` and it should fix it:

```json
"resolutions": {
  "whatwg-url": "14.1.0"
},
```

Commit message:

adding some notes on db modeling and indexes

services/api/README.md, after:

# Bedrock API

![Run Tests](https://github.com/bedrockio/bedrock-core/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)

## API Documentation

See http://localhost:2200/docs for full documentation on this API (requires running the web interface).

---

- [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Running in Development](#running-in-development)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Secrets](#secrets)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [Background Jobs](#background-jobs)
- [Fixtures](#fixtures)
- [Multi Tenancy](#multi-tenancy)
- [Email Templates](#email-templates)
- [Logging](#logging)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

---

## Directory Structure

- `.env` - Default configuration values (override via environment)
- `package.json` - Configure dependencies
- `src/**/__tests__` - Unit tests
- `src/utils` - Various utilities, helpers and middleware extensions
- `src/routes` - API Routes
- `src/routes/__openapi__` - OpenAPI descriptions for use in documentation portal
- `src/models` - [Mongoose ORM models](src/models/README.md) (code and JSON) based on
  [@bedrockio/model](https://github.com/bedrockio/model).
- `src/app.js` - Entrypoint into API (does not bind, so can be used in unit tests)
- `src/index.js` - Launch script for the API
- `emails` - Email templates
- `scripts` - Scripts and jobs
- `fixtures` - Database [fixtures](#fixtures).

## Dependencies

Ensure Node.js version uniformity using Volta:

```
curl -sSLf https://get.volta.sh | bash
```

Install dependencies: (will install correct Node.js version)

```
yarn install
```

## Testing

Tests are written using Jest. Tests MUST follow these guidelines:

- Tests SHOULD focus on critical flows and complex logic. Edge cases should be covered reasonably, but avoid unnecessary
  detail or trivial cases.
- Tests MUST validate observable behavior rather than implementation details.
- Tests MUST be colocated with the source file and use a .test.js suffix.

Run tests with:

```
yarn test
```

## DB Modeling

See `src/models/README.md` for more information on how to model data.

## Running in Development

Code reload using nodemon:

```
yarn start
```

This command will automatically populate MongoDB fixtures when and empty DB is found.

## Configuration

All configuration is done using environment variables. The default values in `.env` can be overwritten using environment
variables.

- `SERVER_HOST` - Host to bind to, defaults to `"0.0.0.0"`
- `SERVER_PORT` - Port to bind to, defaults to `2300`
- `MONGO_URI` - MongoDB URI to connect to, defaults to `mongodb://localhost/bedrock_dev`
- `JWT_SECRET` - JWT secret used for token signing and encryption
- `ADMIN_NAME` - Default dashboard admin user name `admin`
- `ADMIN_EMAIL` - Default dashboard admin user `admin@bedrock.foundation`
- `ADMIN_PASSWORD` - Default dashboard admin password
- `APP_NAME` - Default product name to be used in emails `Bedrock`
- `APP_URL` - URL for app defaults to `http://localhost:2200`
- `POSTMARK_FROM` - Reply email address `no-reply@bedrock.foundation`
- `POSTMARK_API_KEY` - APIKey for Postmark
- `POSTMARK_DEV_TO` - Email recipient to send development mails for debugging.
- `UPLOADS_STORE` - Method for uploads. `local` or `gcs` (Google Cloud Storage)
- `UPLOADS_GCS_BUCKET` - GCS bucket for uploads
- `SENTRY_DSN` - Sentry error monitoring credentials
- `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID` - Twilio Account SID (required for MFA SMS)
- `TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN` - Twillio Auth token (required for MFA SMS)
- `TWILIO_MESSAGING_SERVICE_SID` - Twillio Messaging Service SID (required for MFA SMS)

## Secrets

No production secrets should ever be checked into your repository. Instead, use the deployment
[secrets](../../deployment#secrets) facility to store secrets remotely.

## Deployment

See [../../deployment](../../deployment/).

## Background Jobs

The API provides a simple Docker container for running Cronjobs. The container uses
[Yacron](https://github.com/gjcarneiro/yacron) to provide a reliable cron job system with added features such as
timezones, concurrency policies, retry policies and Sentry error monitoring.

Example configuration of a 10 minute job `jobs/default.yml`:

```yaml
defaults:
  timezone: America/New_York
jobs:
  - name: example
    command: node scripts/jobs/example.js
    schedule: '*/10 * * * *' # Human readable: https://crontab.guru/
    concurrencyPolicy: Forbid
```

To build the container:

```
docker build -t bedrock-api-jobs -f Dockerfile.jobs .
```

Different job configurations can be specified by changing the entry point when running the container. E.g in Kubernetes:

```yaml
command:
  - './scripts/entrypoints/jobs.sh jobs/default.yml'
```

To list all scheduled jobs on a running container:

```bash
curl -s -H "Accept: application/json" localhost:2600/status | jq
```

To force run a scheduled job:

```bash
curl -s -XPOST localhost:2600/jobs/example/start
```

## Fixtures

Fixtures are provided with the [@bedrockio/fixtures](https://github.com/bedrockio/fixtures) package.

Package scripts are the main way of interacting with fixtures:

- `yarn start` - When the development server starts, fixtures will be loaded if the database is empty.
- `yarn fixtures:reload` - Drops the database and reloads all fixtures.
- `yarn fixtures:load` - Loads fixtures if the database is empty. Fixtures are not auto-loaded in non-development
  environments as multiple pods starting up at the same time can cause data duplication, so instead this script is used
  to provision the data once through the CLI pod.
- `yarn fixtures:export` - Exports documents as a zip file in a format compatible with the `fixtures` directory.

Additionally, a function `importFixtures` manually imports fixtures for use with testing.

You can force reload fixtures with the command:

```
yarn fixtures:reload
```

_Note: In the staging environment this script can be run by obtaining a shell into the API CLI pod (see
[../../deployment](../../deployment/README.md))_

The `yarn fixtures:export` script exports documents as a zip file in a format compatible with the `fixtures` directory.
This allows database changes to be "baked" in as fixtures. The following options are accepted:

- `--model(s)`: Comma separated list of model names to export (required).
- `--id(s)`: Comma separated list of ObjectIds to export.
- `--stdout`: Write zip binary to stdout.

In addition to baking local changes, an accompanying CLI command `bedrock cloud export` allows fixtures to be exported
from a remote cloud environment:

`bedrock cloud export [environment]`

Run `bedrock cloud export --help` for usage.

## Multi Tenancy

The API is "multi tenant ready" and can be modified to accommodate specific tenancy patterns:

- Single Tenant per platform deployment: Organization model could be removed.
- Basic Multi Tenancy: Each request will result in a "Default" organization to be set. This can be overriden using the
  "Organization" header.
- Managed Multi Tenancy: Manually add new organizations in the "Organizations" CRUD UI in the dashboard. Suitable for
  smaller enterprise use cases.
- Self Serve Multi Tenancy; Requires changes to the register mechanism to create a new Organization for each signup.
  Suitable for broad SaaS.
- Advanced Multi Tenancy; Allow users to self signup and also be invited into multiple organizations. Requires expaning
  the user model and invite mechanism to allow for multiple organizations.

Example Create API call with multi tenancy enabled:

```js
const { authenticate } = require('../utils/middleware/authenticate');
const { requirePermissions } = require('../utils/middleware/permissions');

router
  .use(authenticate())
  // Only allow access to users that have write permissions for this organization
  .use(requirePermissions('shops.write', 'organization'))
  .post(
    '/',
    validate({
      body: schema,
    }),
    async (ctx) => {
      const shop = await Shop.create({
        // Set the organization for each object created
        organization: ctx.state.organization,
        ...ctx.request.body,
      });
      ctx.body = {
        data: shop,
      };
    },
  );
```

## E-Mail Templates

E-mail templates can be found in `emails`. There is a layout.html that contains the styling and default layout, and a
template for each email, that gets injected into the layout. Multiple layouts are supported, just make sure you specify
what layout to use when calling `template({ layout: "other-layout.html", template: "..." })`

You can either use markdown or full html templates. Both are run though https://mustache.github.io/ for templating

### To create a button in markdown

```
**[Reset Password]({{{APP_URL}}}/reset-password?token={{token}})**
```

This translates to

```
<p><a class="button" href="{{{APP_URL}}}/reset-password?token={{token}}">Reset Pasword</a/</p>
```

(note this only works if the `strong` link is the only element inside the paragraph)

### Recall to unescape `APP_URL`

We are using mustache for templating, it will attempt to escape the http:`//` which causes issues. So when using the the
`APP_URL` write `{{&APP_URL}}`

## Logging

`@bedrockio/logger` provides structured logging in the console and both [logging](https://cloud.google.com/logging/) and
[tracing](https://cloud.google.com/trace) in Google Cloud environments. Importing it will by default enable tracing in a
GCP environment.

In Google Cloud environments generally the server and jobs (`jobs/`) should use the above initialization to allow
structured error reporting in the cloud console. Development environments and scripts (`scripts/`) meant to be run in a
terminal do not require this setup step.

The logger allows multiple log levels:

```js
logger.trace('Very verbose message.');
logger.debug('Less verbose message.');
logger.info('Normal message.');
logger.warning('Warning message.');
logger.error('Error message.');
```

In development environments the default level is `info`, hiding `trace` and `debug` messages. This can be overridden
with `LOG_LEVEL`. In Google Cloud environments all levels are output.

## Documentation

Good API documentation needs love, so make sure to take the time to describe parameters, create examples, etc. The
[Bedrock CLI](https://github.com/bedrockio/bedrock-cli) can generate documentation using the command:

```
bedrock generate docs
```

After generation, documentation can be found and augmented in the files:

```
services/api/src/routes/__openapi__/resource.json
services/web/src/docs/RESOURCE.md
```

The format in `src/routes/__openapi__` is using a slimmed down version of the OpenAPI spec to make editing easier. API
calls can be defined in the `paths` array and Object definitions can be defined in the `objects` array.

Here's an example of an API call definition:

```json
{
  "method": "POST",
  "path": "/login",
  "requestBody": [
    {
      "name": "email",
      "description": "E-mail address of the user trying to log in",
      "required": true,
      "schema": {
        "type": "string",
        "format": "email"
      }
    },
    {
      "name": "password",
      "description": "Password associated with the e-mail address",
      "required": true,
      "schema": {
        "type": "string"
      }
    }
  ],
  "responseBody": [
    {
      "name": "data.token",
      "description": "JWT token that can be used to authenticate user",
      "schema": {
        "type": "string"
      }
    }
  ],
  "examples": [
    {
      "name": "A new login from John Doe",
      "requestBody": {
        "email": "john.doe@gmail.com",
        "password": "AN$.37127"
      },
      "responseBody": {
        "data": {
          "token": "eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VySWQiOiI1ZTZhOWMwMDBmYzY3NjQ0N2RjOTkzNmEiLCJ0eXBlIjoidXNlciIsImtpZCI6InVzZXIiLCJpYXQiOjE1ODk1NjgyODQsImV4cCI6MTU5MjE2MDI4NH0.I0DhLK9mBHCy8sJglzyLHYQHFfr34UYyCFyTaEgFFG"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

All information in `src/routes/__openapi__` is exposed through the API and used by the Markdown-powered documentation
portal in `/services/web/src/docs`.

See [../../services/web](../../services/web) for more info on customizing documentation.

## Authentication

Bedrock provides a variety of authentication methods out of the box. These can be used together, customized to suit your
needs, and removed if not needed:

- [Password](#password)
- [OTP](#otp)
- [Passkey](#passkey)
- [Federated](#federated)

### Password

Password is the default authentication method. It can be used alone or in conjunction with the MFA methods:

- OTP by SMS
- OTP by Email
- Authenticator App

By default MFA is not required and established per-user in the settings "Sign In" page.

To make MFA required for all users, change the `mfaMethod` default in the `user.json` model definition, and remove the
settings dropdown that allows users to change it.

If password authentication is not desired at all, remove it from `api/src/routes/auth/index.js` and change login
entrypoint in `web/src/App.js`.

### OTP

To enable OTP only login, change the login entrypoint in `web/src/App.js` to either `PhoneOtp` or `EmailOtp`. Note that
OTP only authentication is inherently weaker than other methods, and is more suitable for less secure applications.

To remove OTP support, remove the routes from `api/src/routes/auth/index.js`. The OTP related utils should be left to
support OTP as a secondary MFA method.

Note that OTP by SMS requires a Twilio account and OTP by Email requires a Postmark account.

Note also that users flagged as `isTester` will always receive an OTP of `111111`.

### Passkey

Passkey authentication is enabled by changing the login entrypoint in `web/src/App.js` to `Passkey`. Note that passkeys
are secure and do not require MFA, so with a passkey only setup the settings and fields that control `mfaMethod` can be
removed.

To remove passkey support, remove the routes from `api/src/routes/auth/index.js`. The web login and settings section can
also be removed as well as `@simplewebauthn` packages.

> [!WARNING] Note that passkeys require a secure connection. The simplest way to test locally is to set up a
> [Cloudflare Tunnel](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-networks/).

### Federated

Bedrock provides federated login for both Google and Apple out of the box. By default federated logins do not have
entrypoints. Instead they are provided as a secondary login method.

To remove federated login, remove the appropriate routes from `api/src/auth/index.js` as well as the appropriate
settings in the `settings/sign-in` screen. The appropriate packages `google-auth-library` and `verify-apple-id-token`
may also be removed.

#### Google

To set up Sign-in with Google, in your [project console](https://console.cloud.google.com):

- Go to "APIs & Services" > "Credentials".
- Create a new "OAuth client ID".
- "Authorized Javascript origins"
  - Add your domain
  - Add `http://localhost`.
  - Add `http://localhost:2200`.
- "Authorized redirect URIs" - Not needed.
- Copy the "Client ID" to the `.env` files of both `web` and `api`.

#### Apple

To set up Sign-in with Apple, in the [developer console](https://developer.apple.com/account):

- Go to "Certificates, Identifiers & Profiles" > "Identifiers".
- Create a new "App ID":
  - Enter the description.
  - Enter a unique bundle ID.
  - Enable "Sign in with Apple".
  - Continue and Register.
- Create a new "Services ID":

  - Enter the description.
  - Enter a unique Identifier (must be different from the App bundle ID).
  - Continue and Register
  - Select the service.
  - Enable "Sign In with Apple" and configure.
  - Set the "Primary App ID" to your App ID
  - Enter your base domain (ie. `example.com`).
  - Enter your base url as the "Return URL" (ie. `https://example.com`).
  - For local testing, `localhost` is not allowed here, so it is recommended to set up a local tunnel and add that to
    the return URLs (eg. `https://local.example.com`).
  - Note that the "Return URL" must be **exact** including the trailing slash.

- Copy the "Service ID" to the `.env` files of both `web` and `api`.
- Add `APPLE_RETURN_URL` to the `.env` file in `web` (ensure that the URL is exact).

### Custom

Login entrypoints may be replaced or customized as needed, for example a dropdown allowing multiple login methods to be
chosen from in the same screen, however it is recommended to leave the rest of the flows intact as they have been
optimized for each method.

## Troubleshooting

##### I get warnings like `The punycode module is deprecated`. What is this?

This warning comes from later node versions and is usually deep in the dependency chain. Add this to your `package.json`
and re-run `yarn install` and it should fix it:

```json
"resolutions": {
  "whatwg-url": "14.1.0"
},
```
